+++
title = "Three-dimensional analysis of electrode behavior in a human cochlear model"
date = "2005-04-18"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Yoonseob Lim", "Se-Ik Park", "Yong Hyup Kim", "Seung Ha Oh", "Sung June Kim"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Medical Engineering and Physics*"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Three-dimensional (3D) finite element analysis is used in this study to model the mechanical effects of the electrode in a cochlear implant. We employ six electrodes with different stiffness produced by different arrangements of metal wires. Different wire arrangements are generated by changing the fitness function of a genetic program. The human cochlea is modeled by the spiral-approximation method. Reconstructed three-dimensional CT images are used to model the real insertion condition. The contact pressure at the tip and the insertion force are found to be highest when the wires are stacked horizontally. Axial rotation of the electrode has minimal effect on the stimulating current spread. The electrode does not contact the basilar membrane. The results indicate that considering the electrode stiffness is important to minimizing mechanical trauma in cochlear implantation."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = [""]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1350453305000081#"
url_preprint = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1350453305000081"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "", url = ""}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "" 
caption = ""

+++